.\" Copyright 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH "SPACEWALK-ABRT" "8" "2013 February 12" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME

spacewalk-abrt \- Utility for reporting software crashes to Spacewalk
and RHN Satellite.

.SH SYNOPSIS

spacewalk-abrt [\fIoptions\fP] command

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fBspacewalk-abrt\fP is a client program that reports a software crash
that occured on a client system to Spacewalk or Red Hat Network Satellite.
The program operates on top of a problem directory created by \fBABRT\fP
daemon. Ordinarilly, this program is executed automatically by \fBabrtd\fP
when a software crash occurs.

.SH COMMANDS

.IP "\fB--report=PROBLEM_DIRECTORY\fP"
Report the software crash captured in the specified problem directory.
.br
.IP "\fB--update-count=PROBLEM_DIRECTORY\fP"
Update crash count for the specified problem directory.
.br
.IP "\fB--sync\fP"
Synchronize all problem directories found on the client with server.
.br


.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB-v, --verbose\fP"
Increase the debugging output.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxy=PROXY\fP"
Specify an http proxy to use.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyUser=PROXYUSER\fP"
Specify a username to use for an authenticated proxy. This option must be used
in conjunction with \fBproxyPassword\fP.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyPassword=PROXYPASSWORD\fP"
Specify a password to use for an authenticated proxy. This option must be used
in conjunction with \fBproxyUser\fP.
.br
.IP "\fB--version\fP"
Show the program's version number and exit.
.br
.IP "\fB-h, --help\fP"
Show a help message and exit.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/libreport/events.d/spacewalk.conf\fP
This configuration file instructs abrt to execute spacewalk-abrt utility when
a software crash occurs.
.br
.IP \fI/etc/abrt/abrt.conf\fP
Basic configuration for \fBABRT\fP.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBabrtd\fP(8), \fBabrt.conf\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
.PP
This manual page was written by Milan Zazrivec <mzazrivec@redhat.com>.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 2013 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
