.\" Copyright 2006--2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RHN_REGISTER 8 "2011 February 4" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
rhn_register \- Connect to RHN Satellite or Red Hat Network Classic.

.SH SYNOPSIS
rhn_register [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fBrhn_register\fP is a client program that registers your system with 
.B Red Hat Network Classic
(or a RHN Satellite). After registering, your system can receive
software updates, install new software, and remotely manage your system.
It can run both in graphical and text modes.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB-v, --verbose\fP"
Increase the debugging output.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxy=PROXY\fP"
Specify an http proxy to use.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyUser=PROXYUSER\fP"
Specify a username to use for an authenticated proxy. This option must be used
in conjunction with \fBproxyPassword\fP.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyPassword=PROXYPASSWORD\fP"
Specify a password to use for an authenticated proxy. This option must be used
in conjunction with \fBproxyUser\fP.
.br
.IP "\fB--nox\fP"
Run in text mode.
.br
.IP "\fB--version\fP"
Show the program's version number and exit.
.br
.IP "\fB-h, --help\fP"
Show a help message and exit.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/systemid\fP
The digital server ID for this machine if the system has been registered onto
.B RHN Satellite
or
.B Red Hat Network Classic.
This file does not exist otherwise.
.br
.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date\fP
The common configuration file used by RHN client programs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhn_check\fP(8), \fBrhnreg_ks\fP(8), \fBrhnsd\fP(8), \fBrhn-profile-sync\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fBup2date\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
See the AUTHORS file included with this software.
.PP
This manual page was written by James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 1999\-2011 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
