.\" Copyright 2006--2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RHNREG_KS 8 "2010 July 8" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."

.SH NAME
rhnreg_ks \- A program for non interactively registering systems to Red Hat Network.

.SH SYNOPSIS

rhnreg_ks [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fVrhnreg_ks\fR is a utility for registering a system with the Red Hat
Network. It is designed to be used in a non-interactive environment 
(a kickstart style install, for example). All the information can
be specified on the command line or stdin. 

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB--profilename\fP"
Specify the profile name that should be used as an identifier for
the system in Red Hat Network
.br
.IP "\fB--username\fP"
The username to register the system with under Red Hat Network. This
can be an existing Red Hat Network username, or a new username.
.br
.IP "\fB--password\fP"
The password associated with the username specified with the \fB--username\fR
option. This is an unencrypted password.
.br
.IP "\fB--activationkey\fP"
Specify/use a serial number to associate with the system. This is
optional, but activation keys can really simplify the registration
process. Learn more about activation keys in the online RHN
documentation.
.br
.IP "\fB--contactinfo\fP"
This option has been deprecated. Please login to the server
web user interface and update your contactinfo.
.br
.IP "\fB--nohardware\fP"
Do not probe or upload any hardware information. 
.br
.IP "\fB--nopackages\fP"
Do not profile or upload any package information.
.br
.IP "\fB--novirtinfo\fP"
Do not profile or upload any virtualization information.
.br
.IP "\fB--norhnsd\fP"
Do not start rhnsd after completion.
.br
.IP "\fB--force\fP"
Register the system even if it has already been registered.
.br
.IP "\fB--version\fP"
Show the version of rhnreg_ks.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxy\fP"
Specify a HTTP proxy to use.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyUser\fP"
Specify a username to use with an authenticated 
HTTP proxy.
.br
.IP "\fB--proxyPassword\fP"
Specify a password to use with an authenticated
HTTP proxy.
.br
.IP "\fB--sslCACert\fP"
Specify a path to a SSL CA certificate to use.
.br
.IP "\fB--serverUrl\fP"
Specify a URL to as the server.
.br
.IP "\fB-h, --help\fP"
Show a help message and exit.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/systemid\fP
The digital server ID for this machine if the system has been registered onto
.B Red Hat Network.
This file does not exist otherwise.
.br
.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/update\fP
The common configuration file used by RHN client programs.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Register a new system to Red Hat Network:

.RS
.nf
rhnreg_ks --profilename "example_profile_name" --username "someexampleuser" --password "foobar"
.fi
.RE

Register a new system to Red Hat Network with contact info:

.RS
.nf
rhnreg_ks --profilename "example_profile_name" --username "someexampleuser" --password "foobar" --contactinfo < contactinfo

where the file "contactinfo" contains data in the format:

first_name: Billy
last_name: Bob
company: SomeCompanyName
city: Springfield
fax: 555-5555
phone: 555-5555

.fi
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhn_check\fP(8), \fBrhn_register\fP(8), \fBrhnsd\fP(8), \fBrhn-profile-sync\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fBup2date\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
See the AUTHORS file included with this software.
.PP
This manual page was written by Adrian Likins <alikins@redhat.com> and
James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 1999\-2010 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
