.\" Copyright 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH SPACEWALK-CHANNEL 8 "2009 November 24" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."

.SH NAME
spacewalk-channel \- Subscribe to or unsubscribe system from channel.

.SH SYNOPSIS

spacewalk-channel [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fVspacewalk-channel\fR allows you to subscribe to and unsubscribe from 
specified channels via the command line. A visit to the Red Hat Network
(or Spacewalk) website isn't required.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB-l, --list\fP"
Print a list of channel(s) that you are currently subscribed to.
.br
.IP "\fB-a, --add\fP"
You are subscribing system to given channel(s). You have to specify --user and --password.
.br
.IP "\fB-r, --remove\fP"
You are unsubscribing system to given channel(s). You have to specify --user and --password.
.br
.IP "\fB-u, --username\fP"
Your username used to register the system with and for Red Hat Network, RHN Satellite or Spacewalk.
If you do not enter this option and it is required, you will be prompted.
.br
.IP "\fB-p, --password\fP"
The password associated with the username specified with the \fB--username\fR
option. This is an unencrypted password.
If you do not enter this option and it is required, you will be prompted.
.br
.IP "\fB-c, --channel\fP"
Label of channel you want to subscribe to or unsubscribe from. Can be specified multiple 
times.
.br
.IP "\fB-v, --verbose\fP"
Print out successfull action.
.br
.IP "\fB-h, --help\fP"
Show a help message and exit.

.SH NOTE
.PP
The addition and removal of channels is mutually exclusive, please use the command twice.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Subscribe to two channels:

.RS
.nf
spacewalk-channel --add -c rhn-tools-rhel-i386-server-5 -c rhel-i386-server-vt-5 --user username --password password
.fi
.RE

Unsubscribe from channel:

.RS
.nf
spacewalk-channel --remove -c rhn-tools-rhel-i386-server-5 -c rhel-i386-server-vt-5 --user username --password password
.fi
.RE

List subscribed channels:

.RS
.nf
spacewalk-channel --list
.fi
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fBrhn_register\fP(8), \fBup2date\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Miroslav Suchý <msuchy@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 2009 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
