.\" Copyright 1999-2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH "UP2DATE" "5" "2010 July 8" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME

up2date \- Configuration file for Red Hat Network client programs.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
Red Hat Network client programs, such as \fBrhn_check(8)\fR, use a common
configuration file at \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date\fR.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fBenableProxy\fR
Use a HTTP Proxy. Can be either 0 (False) or 1 (True).
.br
.IP \fBserverURL\fR
Remote server URL
.br
.IP \fBdebug\fR
Whether or not debugging is enabled. Can be either 0 (False) or 1 (True).
.br
.IP \fBsystemIdPath\fR
Location of system id file. Expects the path of a file on disk.
.br
.IP \fBversionOverride\fR
Override the automatically determined system version. Expects a string or blank (do not override the version).
.br
.IP \fBhttpProxy\fR
HTTP proxy in host:port format, e.g. squid.redhat.com:3128
.br
.IP \fBproxyUser\fR 
The username for an authenticated proxy.
.br
.IP \fBproxyPassword\fR
The password to use for an authenticated proxy.
.br
.IP \fBenableProxyAuth\fR
To use an authenticated proxy or not. Can be either 0 (False) or 1 (True).
.br
.IP \fBnetworkRetries\fR 
Number of attempts to make at network connections before giving up. Expects a
positive integer.
.br
.IP \fBsslCACert\fR
The CA cert used to verify the ssl server. Expects the path of a file on disk.
.br
.IP \fBnoReboot\fR
Disable the reboot action. Can be either 0 (False) or 1 (True).
.br
.IP \fBdisallowConfChanges\fR
Config options that can not be overwritten by a config update action. Expects a
semi-colon separated list of config option names.
.IP \fBhostedWhitelist\fR
Override the default list of URLs the RHN Register client treats as official RHN hosted servers. This only affects the RHN Register graphical- and text-based clients, as it changes some of the options that appear. This option is included for testing purposes only.
.br
.IP \fBretrieveOnly\fR
If set to 1 (True), package installs done through rhn_check will only download
the package, the package will not be installed.
.br
.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/update\fP
The location of this configuration file

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhn_check\fP(8), \fBrhn_register\fP(8), \fBrhnreg_ks\fP(8), \fBrhnsd\fP(8), \fBrhn-profile-sync\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin.conf\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
See the AUTHORS file included with this software.
.PP
This manual page was written by James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 1999\-2010 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
