=head1 NAME

cgi_to_mod_perl - First steps needed to use mod_perl as a CGI replacement

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As the README and other mod_perl documents explain, mod_perl as
a CGI replacement is only a small piece of what the package offers.
However, it is the most popular use of mod_perl, this document is here
so you can cut to the chase.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Read the INSTALL document, in most cases, nothing more is required
than:

 perl Makefile.PL && make && make install

=head1 CONFIGURATION

For using mod_perl as a CGI replacement, the recommended configuration
is as follows:

 Alias /perl/  /real/path/to/perl-scripts/

 <Location /perl>
 SetHandler  perl-script
 PerlHandler Apache::Registry
 Options +ExecCGI
 </Location>

`Location' refers to the uri, not a directory, think of the above as 

 <Location http://www.yourname.com/perl>

Any files under that location (which live on your filesystem under
/real/path/to/perl-scripts/), will be handled by the Apache::Registry
module, which emulates the CGI environment.  The file must exist and
be executable, in addition,  'Options ExecCGI' must be turned on.

If you wish to have mod_perl execute scripts in any location based on
file extension, use a configuration like so:

 <Files ~ "\.pl$">
 SetHandler perl-script
 PerlHandler Apache::Registry
 Options ExecCGI
 </Files>

Note that `ScriptAlias' does _not_ work for mod_perl.

=head1 PORTING CGI SCRIPTS

=over 4

=item I/O

If you are using Perl 5.004 most CGI scripts can run under mod_perl
untouched.  If you're using 5.003, Perl's built-in C<read()> and
C<print()> functions do not work as they do under CGI.  If you're
using CGI.pm, use C<$query->print> instead of plain 'ol C<print()>.

=item HEADERS

By default, mod_perl does not send any headers by itself, however, you
may wish to change this:

    PerlSendHeader On	

Now the response line and common headers will be sent as they are by
mod_cgi.  And, just as with mod_cgi, PerlSendHeader will not send a
terminating newline, your script must send that itself, e.g.:

 print "Content-type: text/html\n\n";

If you're using CGI.pm and 'print $q->header' you do
_not_ need C<PerlSendHeader On>.    

=item NPH SCRIPTS

To run a CGI `nph' script under mod_perl, simply add to your code:

 local $| = 1;

If you normally set B<PerlSendHeader On>, add this to your httpd.conf:

 <Files */nph-*>
 PerlSendHeader Off
 </Files>

=item PROGRAMMING PRACTICE

CGI lets you get away with sloppy programming, mod_perl does not.
Why?  CGI scripts have the lifetime of a single HTTP request as a
separate process.  When the request is over, the process goes away and
everything is cleaned up for you, e.g. globals variables, open files,
etc.  Scripts running under mod_perl have a longer lifetime, over
several request, different scripts may be in the same process.  This
means you must clean up after yourself.  You've heard:

 always 'use strict' and C<-w>!!!

It's more important under mod_perl Perl than anywhere else, while it's
not required, it B<strongly> recommended, it will save you more time
in the long run.  And, of course, clean scripts will still run under
CGI! 

=item TRAPS

See L<mod_perl_traps>.

=back

=head1 REPORTING PROBLEMS

Read the L<SUPPORT> file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Apache::PerlRun(3)
