=head1 NAME

mod_perl_cvs - Access to the mod_perl CVS development tree

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The mod_perl development tree lives on the same machine as
perl.apache.org.  This tree contains the latest mod_perl bug fixes and
developments that have not made it to CPAN yet.  Welcome to the
bleeding edge. 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Just as cvs access to the Apache development tree, the mod_perl code
pulled from cvs is not guaranteed to do anything, especially not
compile or work.  But, that's exactly why we are using cvs, so
everyone has access the latest version and can help see to it that
mod_perl does compile and work on all platforms, with the various
versions and configurations of Perl and Apache.  Patches are always
welcome, simply testing the latest snapshots is just as, if not more
helpful.

It's recommended to subscribe to the I<modperl-cvs@apache.org> list,
which is the place cvs commit logs and diffs are mailed to; at least
if you're going to work on the code.

Here are the several ways to access the cvs tree.

=over 4

=item cvsup

Cvsup has come out of the FreeBSD group. It's a client/server
beast that offers an efficient way to sync collections of files over
the net, and it is very CVS aware, allowing syncronisation of repositories
or checked out files using the cvs deltas to bring the client side
files up to date with minimal data transfer.

For a FreeBSD cvsup client see:

http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=cvsup&stype=all

Others (SunOS, alpha.osf, linux, Solaris2.4, HPAA 10.2, irix)
ftp://ftp.postgresql.org/pub/CVSup/

Here's a config file for the client (cvsup) to sync modperl sources.

 *default tag=.
 # comment out the above if you want the raw cvs files

 *default host=perl.apache.org
 *default prefix=/path/on/this/machine/to/install/
 # a subdir for modperl will appear here ^^^

 *default base=/path/on/this/machine/where/cvsup/will/keep/status/info
 # you'll never need to look in the 'base' dir.

 *default release=cvs delete use-rel-suffix compress

 modperl
 #apache-src
 #apache-docs
 #uncomment these two for the latest apache src and/or docs if you want them

=item anoncvs

To checkout a fresh copy from anoncvs use

 cvs -d ":pserver:anoncvs@perl.apache.org:/home/cvspublic" login

with the password "anoncvs". 

 cvs -d ":pserver:anoncvs@perl.apache.org:/home/cvspublic" co modperl


For a basic introduction to anoncvs see http://dev.apache.org/anoncvs.txt 


=item from-cvs

A snapshot is rolled of the modperl tree every 6 hours and placed
here:

http://perl.apache.org/from-cvs/modperl/

A snapshot of the Apache development tree is also rolled every 6 hours
and placed here:

http://perl.apache.org/from-cvs/

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

cvs(1)

