.\" Copyright 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH "RHNPLUGIN" "8" "2006 November 13" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME

rhnplugin \- Spacewalk/Red Hat Satellite support for \fByum\fP(8).

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fBrhnplugin\fP provides Spacewalk support for \fByum\fP(8) via its
plugin architecture. A system registered with Spacewalk will be able to
update and install packages from Spacewalk.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/up2date\fP
The common configuration file used by RHN client programs.
.br
.IP \fI/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/rhnplugin.conf\fP
A file containing plugin specific configuration options.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fByum\fP(8), \fBrhn_check\fP(8), \fBrhn_register\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin.conf\fP(5), \fBup2date\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com> and Peter Vetere <pvetere@redhat.com>.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 2006 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
