.\" Copyright 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH "RHNPLUGIN.CONF" "5" "2006 November 13" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME

rhnplugin.conf \- Configuration file for the \fBrhnplugin\fP(8) \fByum\fP(8) plugin.

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fB/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/rhnplugin.conf\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fBrhnplugin.conf\fP contains configuration options which are specific to
\fBrhnplugin\fP(8). The configuration file is located at
\fI/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/rhnplugin.conf\fP.

.SH [main] OPTIONS

.PP
All options of \fByum.conf\fP(5) are available. Most notable are:

.IP \fBenabled\fR
Either `0' or `1'. Determines whether the plugin will be used by yum or not.
Default value is `1'.

.IP \fBgpgcheck\fR
Either `0' or `1'. Determines whether gpg signature checking will be performed
on packages coming from Spacewalk/Red Hat Satellite. Default value is `1'. If this option
is not set, the value from \fByum.conf\fP(5) will be used.

.IP \fBtimeout\fR
The amount of time (in seconds) that you want to wait for a response before timing out. If this option is not set, the value from \fByum.conf\fP(5) will be used.

.SH [\fIchannel-label\fP] OPTIONS

.PP
Individual channels available to client can be configured (enabled/disabled, ...)
in sections named by channel label.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/rhnplugin.conf\fP
The location of this configuration file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fByum\fP(8), \fBup2date\fP(5), \fByum.conf\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com> and Peter Vetere <pvetere@redhat.com>.

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 2006 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
