.\" Copyright 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
.\"
.\" This man page is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this man page; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RHNSD 8 "2006 November 13" "Linux" "Red Hat, Inc."

.SH NAME
rhnsd \- A program for querying the Red Hat Network for updates and information.

.SH SYNOPSIS

rhn_check [\fIoptions\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
\fBrhnsd\fR is a background daemon process that periodically
polls the Red Hat Network to see if there are any queued actions
available. If any are queued, rhnsd will execute those actions. 
.PP
rhnsd is typically started from the initialization (init) scripts in 
\fI/etc/init.d/rhnsd\fP.
when it's time to poll the Red Hat Network servers for available
updates and actions. The default interval is every 240 minutes. 
The minimum polling interval is 60 minutes. 
.PP
To check for updates, rhnsd runs an external program called 
\fBrhn_check\fR. This is a small application that actually
makes the network connection to Red Hat Networks. 
.PP
The rhnsd daemon does not listen on any network ports, nor
does it ever talk to the network directly. Any network
activity is done via the \fBrhn_check\fR utility. 
.PP
rhnsd can be configured by editing the
\fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/rhnsd\fP. 
configuration file. This is actually the
configuration file the rhnsd initialization script
\fI/etc/init.d/rhnsd\fP.
uses.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-i\fR, \fB--interval\fR"
Specify the interval that rhnsd should wait between
checking the Red Hat Network. Default is 240 minutes,
the minimum is 60 minutes. This can also be specified
in \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/rhnsd\fP
.br
.IP "\fB-f\fR, \fB--foreground\fR"
force the rhnsd process to run in the foreground instead
of automatically backgrounding itself, as it does by default.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/sysconfig/rhn/rhnsd\fP
Configuration settings for the rhnsd daemon's initialization script.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fBrhn_check\fP(8), \fBrhn_register\fP(8), \fBrhnsd\fP(8), \fBrhn-profile-sync\fP(8), \fBrhnplugin\fP(8), \fBup2date\fP(5).

.SH AUTHORS

Preston Brown <pbrown@redhat.com>
.br
Cristian Gafton <gafton@redhat.com>
.br
Adrian Likins <alikins@redhat.com>
.br
James Bowes <jbowes@redhat.com>

.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <http://bugzilla.redhat.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT

.PP
Copyright \(co 1999-2006 Red Hat, Inc.

.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is 
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
