.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile: HTML::Tagset.3,v $$Revision: 1.1 $$Date: 2001-11-26 20:19:09 $
'''
''' $Log: not supported by cvs2svn $
''' Revision 1.1  2001/04/28 00:28:15  hadkins
'''
'''
''' adding stuff
'''
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH Tagset 3 "perl 5.005, patch 03" "20/Oct/2000" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
HTML::Tagset \- data tables useful in parsing HTML
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.Vb 3
\&  use HTML::Tagset;
\&  # Then use any of the items in the HTML::Tagset package
\&  #  as need arises
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This module contains several data tables useful in various kinds of
HTML parsing operations.
.PP
Note that all tag names used are lowercase.
.PP
In the following documentation, a \*(L"hashset\*(R" is a hash being used as a
set -- the hash conveys that its keys are there, and the actual values
associated with the keys are not significant.  (But what values are
there, are always true.)
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::emptyElement" 5
This hashset has as values the tag-names (GIs) of elements that cannot
have content.  (For example, \*(L"base\*(R", \*(L"br\*(R", \*(L"hr\*(R".)  So
\f(CW$HTML::Tagset::emptyElement{'hr'}\fR exists and is true.
\f(CW$HTML::Tagset::emptyElement{'dl'}\fR does not exist, and so is not true.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::optionalEndTag" 5
This hashset lists tag-names for elements that can have content, but whose
end-tags are generally, \*(L"safely\*(R", omissible.  Example:
\f(CW$HTML::Tagset::emptyElement{'li'}\fR exists and is true.
.Ip "hash %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::linkElements" 5
Values in this hash are tagnames for elements that might contain
links, and the value for each is a reference to an array of the names
of attributes whose values can be links.
.Ip "hash %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::boolean_attr" 5
This hash (not hashset) lists what attributes of what elements can be
printed without showing the value (for example, the \*(L"noshade\*(R" attribute
of \*(L"hr\*(R" elements).  For elements with only one such attribute, its value
is simply that attribute name.  For elements with many such attributes,
the value is a reference to a hashset containing all such attributes.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isPhraseMarkup" 5
This hashset contains all phrasal-level elements.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::is_Possible_Strict_P_Content" 5
This hashset contains all phrasal-level elements that be content of a
P element, for a strict model of \s-1HTML\s0.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isHeadElement" 5
This hashset contains all elements that elements that should be
present only in the \*(L'head\*(R' element of an \s-1HTML\s0 document.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isList" 5
This hashset contains all elements that can contain \*(L"li\*(R" elements.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isTableElement" 5
This hashset contains all elements that are to be found only in/under
a \*(L"table\*(R" element.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isFormElement" 5
This hashset contains all elements that are to be found only in/under
a \*(L"form\*(R" element.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isBodyMarkup" 5
This hashset contains all elements that are to be found only in/under
the \*(L"body\*(R" element of an \s-1HTML\s0 document.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isHeadOrBodyElement" 5
This hashset includes all elements that I notice can fall either in
the head or in the body.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isKnown" 5
This hashset lists all known \s-1HTML\s0 elements.
.Ip "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::canTighten" 5
This hashset lists elements that might have ignorable whitespace as
children or siblings.
.Ip "array @\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::p_closure_barriers" 5
This array has a meaning that I have only seen a need for in
\f(CWHTML::TreeBuilder\fR, but I include it here on the off chance that someone
might find it of use:
.Sp
When we see a \*(L"<p>\*(R" token, we go lookup up the lineage for a p
element we might have to minimize.  At first sight, we might say that
if there's a p anywhere in the lineage of this new p, it should be
closed.  But that's wrong.  Consider this document:
.Sp
.Vb 17
\&  <html>
\&    <head>
\&      <title>foo</title>
\&    </head>
\&    <body>
\&      <p>foo
\&        <table>
\&          <tr>
\&            <td>
\&               foo
\&               <p>bar
\&            </td>
\&          </tr>
\&        </table>
\&      </p>
\&    </body>
\&  </html>
.Ve
The second p is quite legally inside a much higher p.
.Sp
My formalization of the reason why this is legal, but this:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&  <p>foo<p>bar</p></p>
.Ve
isn't, is that something about the table constitutes a \*(L"barrier\*(R" to
the application of the rule about what p must minimize.
.Sp
So \f(CW@HTML::Tagset::p_closure_barriers\fR is the list of all such
barrier-tags.
.Ip "hashset %isCDATA_Parent" 5
This hashset includes all elements whose content is \s-1CDATA\s0.
.SH "CAVEATS"
You may find it useful to alter the behavior of modules (like
\f(CWHTML::Element\fR or \f(CWHTML::TreeBuilder\fR) that use \f(CWHTML::Tagset\fR's
data tables by altering the data tables themselves.  You are welcome
to try, but be careful; and be aware that different modules may or may
react differently to the data tables being changed.
.PP
Note that it may be inappropriate to use these tables for \fIproducing\fR
HTML -- for example, \f(CW%isHeadOrBodyElement\fR lists the tagnames
for all elements that can appear either in the head or in the body,
such as \*(L"script\*(R".  That doesn't mean that I am saying your code that
produces HTML should feel free to put script elements in either place!
If you are producing programs that spit out HTML, you should be
\fIintimately\fR familiar with the DTDs for HTML or XHTML (available at
\f(CWhttp://www.w3.org/\fR), and you should slavishly obey them, not
the data tables in this document.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIHTML::Element\fR manpage, the \fIHTML::TreeBuilder\fR manpage, the \fIHTML::LinkExtor\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright 1995-2000 Gisle Aas; copyright 2000 Sean M. Burke.
.PP
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Current maintainer: Sean M. Burke, <sburke@cpan.org>
.PP
Most of the code/data in this module was adapted from code written by
Gisle Aas <gisle@aas.no> for \f(CWHTML::Element\fR,
\f(CWHTML::TreeBuilder\fR, and \f(CWHTML::LinkExtor\fR.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "Tagset 3"
.IX Name "HTML::Tagset - data tables useful in parsing HTML"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::emptyElement"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::optionalEndTag"

.IX Item "hash %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::linkElements"

.IX Item "hash %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::boolean_attr"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isPhraseMarkup"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::is_Possible_Strict_P_Content"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isHeadElement"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isList"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isTableElement"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isFormElement"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isBodyMarkup"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isHeadOrBodyElement"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::isKnown"

.IX Item "hashset %\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::canTighten"

.IX Item "array @\s-1HTML::\s0Tagset::p_closure_barriers"

.IX Item "hashset %isCDATA_Parent"

.IX Header "CAVEATS"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

